Modernize docs (Round 1) (#1363)
google/santa: docs/binaries/santametricservice.md

---
parent: Binaries
---

# santametricservice

> The `santametricservice` is responsible for managing various counter and gauges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `santametricservice` is responsible for managing various counters and gauges
```

used by the Santa development team for monitoring important aspects of Santa
including CPU/memory usage, event counters, event processing timers and much
more. Metrics are also often added for new and experimental features to help
ensure proper functionality.

Periodically, the state of all metrics are collected, converted to the
configured format and exported to the configured server.

**IMPORTANT:** Collected metrics are ***not*** sent back to Google. Metrics are
sent to whatever server is configured, which is nothing by default.

**NOTE:** At Google,
[Monarch](https://research.google/pubs/monarch-googles-planet-scale-in-memory-time-series-database/)
is used for its metrics system but this has limited value for other deployments.

> Ideally Santa should change to using a more open source friendly solution in the
> future ([#563](https://github.com/google/santa/issues/563)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are planning to add support for other open-source friendly metric collection solutions in the future so that other organizations can collect these metrics. ([#563](https://github.com/google/santa/issues/563)).
```

Author: Added a note to the known limitations page and linked to it from here.
